/*
Title: NWERC 2015: The Fellowship of the TUM
Description: Experiences from the NWERC 2015 in Linköping.
Date: 2016/01/07
Template: news
*/

#NWERC15

##The Fellowship of the TUM

Nine students took off on an early Friday morning on their journey to Linköping in the distant land of Sweden. Grouping themselves into three teams, and with no less than five coaches travelling alongside them, they formed the fellowship of the TUM to compete for fame and glory in the Northwestern European Regional Contest 2015.

Travelling by train, plane, train again, and bus, the fellowship finally arrived at the Linköping University after nightfall (even though it was only the late afternoon by then). After registration was completed and goody bag reception was executed, a funny Friday evening in the cold -- actually, not that much for this time of year -- Nordic environment awaited. The cold was overcome by just sitting inside -- of course! -- and drinking it away, with interesting choices for beverages provided by the local organisation. In the end, the evening turned out great and some nice conversations were held between members of the fellowship and with those of other fellowships just like it. Of course, one can only speak for some of the fellows, some others had to pay the price of infiltrating the jury and rejoiced in checking keyboards and cheat sheets. The following night was supposed to be quite soothing, had it not been for some fifty strangers that were all packed into the same sleeping room. And for the absolutely calming and comforting guard that assured that no deep sleep phase would get too long by waving his flashlight around inordinately every fifteen minutes, accompanying noises included, of course.

The next morning, after not really that many hours of undisturbed sleep, a new day awaited, along with new challenges to overcome. One of the first of many was to be fast enough at the 'breakfast buffet' to get access to the best food before it was gone. At noon, the practice contest was held, which -- at least for the coaches -- meant that finally, the showers were unoccupied and ready to be used. After that followed a strange mixup of lunch and an accompanying tech talk to rush through the program. Then, for a few hours, the fellowship split up to conquer different parts of the local countryside: either by walking through the town of Linköping, visiting a computer museum, or just having an overdue afternoon nap to conquer the realm of dreams. Gathering again in the late afternoon, the fellowship attended a Q&A session, followed by a satiable feast in their honor. Shortly after, time had come to part ways with the beloved sleeping hall of the night before and have oneself a good night's rest at a local hotel. Only the best for the fellowship! One could only assume that all students quickly went to sleep after arriving at the hotel, at least the coaches extended the evening for a few more hours and celebrated their own kind of preparation for the big contest on Sunday...

Then, Sunday came. And with it, also the confirmation that breakfast up here in the north can be quite different from the aforementioned one. Freshly recharged and ready to compete, all three teams went on their ways to the University once again. Only wild assumptions could be made about what exactly happened during those five hours in which the nine students tried to solve all eleven problems given to them. At least, the coaches shared a calm afternoon, entertained by animated scoreboards and video games. After this extremely challenging afternoon, the following hours went fast. There was an award ceremony (Congratulations to all high-ranked teams, especially the winners *Game of Nolife* from Finland!), some time for memorable photographs, then the fellowship immediately left for Stockholm with some good results in their bags: a 19th place, a 30th place, and a 44th place out of 99 teams overall.

Arriving at the hotel in Stockholm, it was quickly established that opening hours for bars and restaurants in Sweden are quite different from the familiar ones. In particular, this meant that a local supermarket had to serve as a substitute and provide the urgently needed food and beverages. For the same reasons again, these had to be consumed in one of the hotel rooms. But nobody seemed to care, as apparently, all were having a great and stress-free time. Another comforting night and another nutrient breakfast later, there were only so many hours to spend getting to know the city of Stockholm. Again, the fellowship parted for individual experiences -- some in museums, some in churches, some just walking around -- only to be reunited again to catch the plane back home, practicing for the next contests to come...
