/*
Title: Road to Bath
Description: We are happy to announce that there will be a training camp again where we will chosse TUM's teams for this year's NWERC in Bath, UK.
Date: 2015/08/05
Template: news
*/

Do you want to be part of one of TUM's teams for NWERC 2016 in Bath? In this
article we will describe the stages of our team creation.

## 1. Qualify for our Training Camp

First of all you need to get an invitation to our training camp. We hand
these invitations during several events here at TUM. The following students
will receive an initation to this year's training camp:

1. Team members of TUM's best three teams at the German Collegiate
Programming Contest (GCPC) 2016.

2. The students in our [practical course "Algorithms for Programming
Contests"](/preparation/courses) who collected the most points during the
term.

3. Winners of our training contests at [TUMjudge
contest](https://judge.in.tum.de/contest/)

New training contests will be announced later on this website. Check the
news for their dates.

## 2. Participate in our Training Group

With your invitation to the training camp you will also get access to the
chat of our training group. We meet weekly and discuss problems that we
solved during the previous week as well as participate in contests together.

You can also be part of the training group without having an invitation to
the training camp. Please [contact](/contact) us to get in touch.

## 3. Attend the Training Camp

The training camp will take place from Monday, 3rd October until Saturday,
8th Otcober. We rented a house at the Zillertal in Austria which is pictured
above for the full week. During this training camp we will have some talks,
do contests together, discuss algorithms and strategies as well as go
hiking, have fun and use the bar that is included in the house! To do so we
will bring all our servers (LAN party anyone?) to the house and invite some
interesting guests.

At the end of the camp, we will choose the best students and decide on the
teams that will represent TUM at the NWERC in Bath.

All costs for this training camp are covered by us including travel cost,
you just need to pay for your food as we are not allowed by administration
to do so.

## 4. Go to NWERC!

After some more training we will take the best teams to Bath. Again, all
costs but food are covered by us. The NWERC will be from 19th to 20th
November, we will leave Munich on Friday, 18th November and will be back on
Monday, 21st November.

We are looking forward to you joining us on the way to Bath!
